.TH MOR 1 "2026-04-13" "mor 0.18.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mor \- AI-accessible knowledge you actually own
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mor
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ query... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mor
stores knowledge as plain markdown files with YAML frontmatter
.B on your disk,
indexed by SQLite FTS5 with optional vector embeddings. AI assistants access
your knowledge via MCP. You also get a CLI and HTTP API.
.PP
Notes are stored in
.I ~/.local/share/mor/notes/
(overridable via
.BR MOR_HOME ).
Each note has an ID (UUID), title, optional description, tags, type, and
markdown content.
.PP
All commands accept multi-word queries without quoting. Options must come before
the query:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor find \-\-limit 5 python naming
mor cat fastify server primer
.fi
.RE
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Search
.TP
.BI "find " "query..."
Full-text search using FTS5 (tokenized, stemmed). When embeddings are configured,
results are merged using Reciprocal Rank Fusion. Frequently accessed notes
get a small ranking boost.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " " n
Max results (default 20).
.TP
.BI \-s ", " \-\-threshold " " n
Minimum relevance score 0\-1 (default 0.3).
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output as JSON (includes content).
.RE
.TP
.BI "grep " "pattern..."
Search note content by substring or regex.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " " n
Max results (default 20).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore\-case
Case-insensitive matching.
.TP
.BR \-E ", " \-\-regex
Treat pattern as a JavaScript regular expression.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-word\-regexp
Match whole words only.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-line\-number
Show line numbers.
.TP
.BI \-A ", " \-\-after\-context " " n
Show n lines after each match.
.TP
.BI \-B ", " \-\-before\-context " " n
Show n lines before each match.
.TP
.BI \-C ", " \-\-context " " n
Show n lines before and after each match.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-files\-with\-matches
Show only note titles, no matching lines.
.RE
.SS Create and Edit
.TP
.BI "add " "[file|url]"
Add a note from a file, URL, stdin, or \fB$EDITOR\fR. Without arguments,
opens the editor.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-t ", " \-\-title " " title
Note title.
.TP
.BI \-d ", " \-\-description " " text
Short description.
.TP
.BI \-\-tags " " tags
Comma-separated tags.
.TP
.BI \-\-type " " type
Note type (see \fBTYPES\fR).
.RE
.TP
.BI "edit " "query..."
Open a note in \fB$EDITOR\fR.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Edit frontmatter too.
.RE
.TP
.BI "update " "query..."
Update metadata or content of an existing note. Options must come before the query.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-t ", " \-\-title " " title
New title.
.TP
.BI \-d ", " \-\-description " " text
New description.
.TP
.BI \-\-tags " " tags
New tags (comma-separated).
.TP
.BI \-\-type " " type
New type.
.TP
.BI \-\-content\-from " " source
Read new content from file or \fB\-\fR for stdin.
.RE
.TP
.BI "patch " "query..."
Apply a str_replace patch to a note's content. Both \fB\-\-old\fR and
\fB\-\-new\fR are required.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-old " " text
Exact substring to find (must appear exactly once in the note).
.TP
.BI \-\-new " " text
Replacement string. Pass an empty string to delete.
.RE
.SS Read and Export
.TP
.BI "cat " "query..."
Print note content to stdout.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Include YAML frontmatter.
.TP
.B \-\-links
Show cross-references after the content.
.RE
.TP
.BI "cp " "query..."
Copy note content to a file.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-o ", " \-\-output " " dest
Destination file path (required).
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Include YAML frontmatter.
.RE
.SS Cross-references
.TP
.BI "links " "[query...]"
Show forward links and backlinks for a note.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-broken
List all notes with broken (dangling) references.
.RE
.PP
Notes can link to each other using markdown links with the \fBmor:\fR scheme:
.PP
.RS
.nf
[Fastify Chaos Plugin](mor:22f6b489)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Links use \fB\(->>\fR for forward, \fB<<\-\fR for backlinks, and \fB<<\->>\fR for
bidirectional. They are derived from content and optional frontmatter
\fBlinks\fR arrays, rebuilt on every upsert and reindex.
.SS Manage
.TP
.BI "rm " "id..."
Remove a note by UUID or UUID prefix (8+ characters).
.TP
.B ls
List all notes, sorted by last updated.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " " n
Max results.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Show all notes (no limit).
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-long
Show type, date, tags, and file path.
.TP
.B \-\-tags
List all tags with counts.
.TP
.B \-\-types
List all types with counts.
.RE
.TP
.B sync
Pull remote changes via git, commit and push local changes.
.TP
.B reindex
Rebuild the search index and links table from note files.
.TP
.BI "import " dir
Import \fI.md\fR files from a directory.
.SS Server
.TP
.B mcp
Start an MCP server over stdio. Used by AI assistants.
.TP
.B serve
Start an HTTP server for remote access.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-p ", " \-\-port " " port
Listen port (default 7677).
.TP
.BI \-H ", " \-\-host " " host
Listen host (default 127.0.0.1).
.TP
.BI \-\-token " " token
Require Bearer token authentication.
.TP
.B \-\-mcp
Enable MCP endpoint at \fI/mcp\fR.
.RE
.TP
.B version
Show version information.
.TP
.BI "login"
Authenticate with a remote server via OAuth.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-s ", " \-\-server " " url
Server URL.
.RE
.SH FILTER OPTIONS
The following options are available for
.BR find ,
.BR grep ,
and
.BR ls :
.TP
.BI \-\-type " " type
Filter by note type (comma-separated, glob patterns).
.TP
.BI \-\-tag " " pattern
Filter by tag (comma-separated, AND logic, glob patterns).
.TP
.BI \-\-repo " " pattern
Filter by repository (glob pattern).
.TP
.BI \-\-ext " " ext
Filter by file extension.
.SH TYPES
.TP
.B knowledge
General knowledge (default).
.TP
.B snippet
Code snippet.
.TP
.B file
Saved file.
.TP
.B user
User preferences and profile.
.TP
.B feedback
Workflow feedback and corrections.
.TP
.B project
Project context and decisions.
.TP
.B reference
Pointers to external resources.
.SH QUERY RESOLUTION
When a command accepts a
.IR query ,
it is resolved in order: full UUID, UUID prefix (8+ characters), filename,
then full-text search.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MOR_HOME
Override all directories with a single flat directory.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Config directory (default \fI~/.config\fR).
.TP
.B XDG_DATA_HOME
Data directory for notes (default \fI~/.local/share\fR).
.TP
.B XDG_STATE_HOME
State directory for index and credentials (default \fI~/.local/state\fR).
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor used by
.B add
and
.BR edit .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/mor/config.json
Configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/mor/notes/
Note storage directory.
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/mor/index.db
SQLite search index (memories, FTS, links, embeddings).
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/mor/credentials.json
OAuth tokens (created by \fBmor login\fR).
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/mor/oauth.db
OAuth clients and tokens (server-side).
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file supports:
.TP
.B notesDir
Path to note storage directory.
.TP
.B dbPath
Path to SQLite database.
.TP
.B autosync
Automatically git sync after add, update, and remove (boolean).
.TP
.B embedding
Embedding provider configuration (openai, azure-openai, ollama, none).
.TP
.B server
Remote server connection (url, token).
.TP
.B serve
HTTP server defaults (port, host, token, mcp).
.SH EXAMPLES
Add a note from a file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor add src/utils.ts
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search for notes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor find authentication flow
.fi
.RE
.PP
Grep for an exact string:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor grep \-i createServer
.fi
.RE
.PP
Grep with a regex:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor grep \-E "async\\s+function" \-i
.fi
.RE
.PP
List notes tagged with "config":
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor ls \-\-tag config
.fi
.RE
.PP
Update tags on a note:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor update \-\-tags "go,concurrency" 8da8d8f2
.fi
.RE
.PP
Copy a note to a file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor cp \-o ./out.md fastify server primer
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show cross-references for a note:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor links fastify chaos plugin
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start the HTTP server with auth and MCP:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mor serve \-\-token secret \-\-mcp
.fi
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Sigurd Fosseng <sigurd@fosseng.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
.UR https://github.com/laat/mor
.UE
